no other aren't they just think about
how many vague ins do you know you know
their clue they are clueless religious
because what they have is ritual without
without without philosophy fundamentally
I really believe that diet is the
primary way that we need to change
things people thought that I was going
to be the first tennis pro or the first
african-american but I'm actually the
first vegan to be president of the
American College of Cardiology and there
really is a relationship between diet
everyone knows that the question is what
are going to do about it and how far you
personally willing to go because what
they have is ritual without without
without philosophy fundamentally so
what's happened in many cases is that as
the sophisticated religion so to speak
have collapsed what emerges from their
ashes are rituals and rituals are sort
of the ground out of which our religion
emerges vague ins vegetarianism
vegetarians environmentalists anybody
who is an ideologue if you donate $100
I'll make an exclusive video just for
you where I'll threaten anyone you want
with a vegetable of your choice so if
you want me to make a video threatening
your mom with an avocado then I'll make
a video threatening your mom with an
avocado and I'll just post it unlisted
on my channel and send it directly to
you if you're into that sort of thing
then yeah you know and the reason the
reason that I would consider those in
the religious domain is because their
systems of value and they're predicated
on fundamental assumptions that you have
to take on faith more than a year ago
one of my fellow vegans asked me a
question about how we as vegans were
being portrayed received and perceived
in mainstream movies mainstream TV shows
etc
and at that time my feeling really was
look as a movement and just as a
minority within the modern Western world
we're going through a period of time
where most of the attention we get from
the mainstream is mockery most of the
attention we get from the establishment
including university professors and
lecture halls at this one most of the
attention we get is mockery and yet that
mockery still is in its way an important
form of representation and shows the
extent to which we are climbing up the
ladder of public awareness as a pressing
issue to be addressed even if it's an
issue to be addressed by one or two
percent of the population there was a
time when the public was really eagerly
receiving each and every depiction of
homosexuality in mainstream cinema there
was a TV show called soap it was both a
soap opera and parody of soap operas and
it was in large part responsible for
launching the career of Billy Crystal is
now very famous comedian and that TV
show simply had a gay character and at
that time it was a cause for celebration
even though that character you know was
a comedy the character was in many ways
making a mockery of gay people in
general or of a stereotypical gay
character in many ways but still at that
stage there were so few films and so few
mainstream TV shows
recognizing that gay people exist just
that they exist at all that it was
really received as an important step in
the right direction
just that just that recognition even if
the form of recognition is mockery so
guys as V paid and vacuous and foolish
and pointless as this little monologue
from professor Jordan Peterson maybe I'd
encourage you to see it in that light
it's significant in its way that in
these examples
throwing out with very little thought
and certainly zero research he throws
out the name of veganism a few minutes
later he's talking about Buddhism just
as casually I'm absolutely convinced he
has never done any meaningful research
on veganism or Buddhism and believe me
I'm aware I mispronounce a few words
here and there but his pronunciation of
veganism alone stands out as a little
bit of a hint how many vague ins do you
know as to how rarely he says the word
or how rarely he hears it spoken by
others and so on how many vague ins do
you know it's easy you know it's it's
cheap and it's easy to do what he does
here with the name of veganism it's easy
to try to get a few laughs out of your
audience by pointing the finger at
vegans and I think there was a time when
hostility against homosexuals was so
high that it was easy for university
professors to point the finger and laugh
and get the same kind of laughs out of
ridiculing homosexuals or those who
defended them what have you now the
specific argument that he's offering
here it's surreal even to summarize it
but what he tries to construe is the
view that all human beings are religious
that religion is universal that's the
question that's put two elements of that
nature and that vegans are an example of
people who are all the more religious
and all the more diluted because we're
unaware of the extent to which we're
true believers or true believers in a
system of values hello guys I am a vegan
and I openly identify as a nihilist I
reject belief itself the only thing I
believe is that there is nothing to be
believed in there are certainly many
prominent vegans who reject the ethical
arguments for veganism who describe
themselves in purely scientific terms in
purely dietary terms some of them are
doing it just for the sake of vanity
just to be thin and beautiful some just
for the sake of you know the health of
their
part of their brain to avoid getting
cancer so on and so forth but what
Peterson's unaware of because he takes
no interest you speaks out of sheer
ignorance is the extent to which
veganism really is one practice not just
one diet but quite a complex political
practice with many different competing
ideologies attached to it and each of
those ideologies really does compete
with the others we have a fantastic
array of debates everywhere from YouTube
to the formal peer-reviewed academic
literature on veganism and frankly those
are debates that someone like Jordan
Peterson probably would respect if you
took a look at them probably if you
looked at the difference between the
abolitionist approach and the
citizenship approach probably if you
looked at the debates on philosophy as
well as principle and practice between
Geary Franchione and direct action
everywhere probably if he looked at a
synopsis of any of the major debates
about vegan ethics and vegan politics he
would have to eat his words here when he
claims incoherently enough that veganism
is nothing but ritual lacking any
philosophy on the contrary what you find
soon enough is that maybe we have too
much philosophy for a very simple
practice now I think those debates
rather than veganism are really
worthwhile and I'm really glad that
we're having them now at the start of
the movement when everything is still in
its nascent stages I've seen so much
change in progress just in the last
couple of years I think what I first got
involved with veganism it seemed like
the consensus view in veganism was the
following line of reasoning that I do
reject although not because it's
superstitious and not because it's
religious dogs are cute human beings
should naturally love and domesticate
big arrow dogs point to pigs and baby
chickens are also cute it's really just
baby pigs they show you they don't show
you adult wild boars and those arguments
are simply that therefore humans should
have the same feeling towards the same
master to domesticate a relationship
towards those
was also in effect the whole world
should be turned into a petting zoo and
that cows and pigs their rightful place
in a human controlled world is on the
carpet next to dogs and cats now I
should find that a deeply flawed
argument philosophically ethically and
politically in terms of praxis in terms
of pragmatic pragmatics is favorite word
in terms of pragmatism I would say that
much more rarely you encounter people to
come out of a self-aware conscious
religious background who argue that each
animal has a soul and where they believe
in some kind of cosmology in which
animals have souls and their moral
actions and choices are dictated by this
this whole range though that you know
fairly enough Peterson here makes mock
of he's making a mockery of veganism for
the purposes of advancing his own
argument I think the truth is that
someone like Peterson if he would just
take a look you would actually find a
whole lots of respect there I do not
know him well enough to say whether his
respect would more be attached to
someone like respectable career
cardiologists oncologists experts hidden
heart surgery cancer etc or if you would
gravitate more towards some of the
political radicals some of the ethical
philosophers some of the people who
obsessively hash of the details of the
morality of when we can and cannot
justify using a medicine that is
ultimately extracted from an animal's
body or where the research to discover
that medicine relied on torturing
animals to death and laboratories those
are ethical and philosophical issues
that vegans I think to universally at
least take seriously even though there
is this tremendous intellectual
diversity within veganism tremendous
ideological diversity tremendous
political diversity guys if I had a
choice to either be part of a philosophy
that had no praxis a philosophy that you
had no way to implement in the real
world or during part of a praxis that
had no philosophy
you know which one I would choose vegans
know the change they want to make in the
world they know how they want to
accomplishment for the most part they
know the goals they're working towards
and then there's this tremendous lively
intellectual discourse about the meaning
of that practice about the meaning of
the struggle even though we're all
engaged in the struggle already whether
we conceptualize it in terms of the
supernatural
the soul or conceptualize it in terms of
a complex moral system of opposing
speciesism the abolitionist approach the
citizens you've approached so many
different paradigms right
I would certainly much rather be part of
a working and thriving political praxis
that's still in search of an ideology
that has many competing ideologies in
many worthwhile philosophical debates
rather than be in an academic scenario
we have a philosophical debate with no
practice with no chance of really
changing the world and as I say with
confidence even someone like Jordan
Peterson who here is just speaking out
of ignorance
he's just mocking us but he's money
instead of immigrants I'm a hundred
percent confident that if he takes the
time to open that door and take a look
at what's going on within veganism he
will find something to respect about
that struggle something to respect in
those debates even though I don't know
which side of the debate he would
respect ah Luo Yin